Hey there, welcome to the Paws at Data Science Hangout. I'm Libby Herron, and this is a recording
of our weekly community call that happens every Thursday at 12 p.m. U.S. Eastern Time.
If you are not joining us live, you miss out on the amazing chat that's going on. So find
the link in the description where you can add our call to your calendar and come hang
out with the most supportive, friendly, and funny data community you'll ever experience.
Can't wait to see you there. I am so excited to introduce our featured leader today. We're
talking with Jon Lin, advisor of data science and AI at Oventive. Jon, welcome to the hangout.
I would love it if you could tell us a little bit about you, something you like to do for
fun, what you do for work. Hi everyone, I'm Jon. Let's go over the fun stuff first. I
love dragon boating. One of the things we do at work is we organize a little dragon
boat team here in Calgary. It's a big passion of mine, and I do coach the team, so I'm very
happy about that. But yeah, that's kind of the fun stuff. I'll talk a little bit about
me. So I had a really great start after university. I graduated in 2008. This was during the best
time ever to graduate, which was during the Great Recession. Even better, I had a Bachelor
of Commerce, which meant that my job prospects were a little bit thin. I was really lucky
to have a job offer at Ernst & Young, which was kind of one of my first real out-of-university
jobs. It was really around IT governance, so I learned a lot about IT governance, doing
a lot of auditing on these public companies, and that's kind of where I got my big foundation
is kind of being disciplined in that. But at the same time, this is where I started
to pivot a little bit more into analytics. I got a big taste for analytics doing kind
of what we call journal entry testing, but looking at these big public companies to see
if there was any evidence of fraud. And that was done through these kind of, I'd say, old-school
software packages at the time. But that's where I started to really love doing kind
of this data analytics work. Through that time, that's when I actually got my first
taste of R. R back then, this was around, I'm going to say, 2010, 2009. That was kind
of an R GUI thing. RStudio didn't exist at the time. So R GUI was, for those who kind
of remember, was a little bit rough around the edges. It was totally workable. It was
beautiful, but back then it was really hard to learn. But that's kind of where I got
my taste for R, and I really liked it. Doing that data analytics work, I was really
lucky. It pivoted me into that second part of my career. I joined Encana. Encana is an
oil and gas company. It's now called Ovintiv. But basically, I got the opportunity to revamp
an entire anti-fraud department using R here internally at the company. So that was my
first real great application of R. Really wonderful things started to happen after I
joined. Number one, there was these pockets. So this is around, I'm saying, 2013. Little
pockets of R users in the company. There was this one guy I remember very fondly. His name
is Tim. And he was doing some really good production planning stuff in R. These algorithms
for kriging, very difficult to do, would normally be done in Excel, or you had to pay someone
to do it, pay an external company to do it. He just did it himself in R. But one of the
challenges that he had was that he had to put everything on a network drive. So the
first pain that a lot of people have when they're starting to start up in R, they don't
have the right infra. Well, they just put everything on a network drive. And they say,
well, well, just go install R. And for a lot of petroleum engineers, that was already kind
of over their heads. So that was a little bit challenging at the beginning for us to
use R. But a second really great thing came around. So we had the algorithms in place,
but they were kind of harder to use. Then we acquired, the company acquired another team
and that team, what they did, and I'm kind of looking at Kyle's messages, because that's
what made me really happy. This team that we acquired, they brought an amazing talent.
And one of the things they had was this shiny app. Again, it was a beautiful app. It solved
a wonderful business problem. We couldn't buy the software anywhere else. But it was
solely dedicated, it was solely hosted on a network drive. So for us, adopting that
was again, you know, it's not so bad nowadays with RStudio IDE, we kind of forget the trauma.
But for someone again, that was new to R and wanted to do something, it was really, it
was really challenging to distribute and keep up to date. So that's when we got, that's
when we engaged at the time RStudio. And Katie was actually our customer service rep back
in the day. And we brought on RStudio Connect. And it was, it was a game changer for us.
We put it on a virtual machine. We started off with 50 people, which we thought was a
huge license amount at the time. We started off with 50 people. And the amazing thing
about when we started to bring on RStudio Connect is that people started just to jump
on board with the tool. And people start to make their own tools. And we kept growing
our virtual machine bigger and bigger and bigger. We actually got to a point and I love
this part of the kind of the career where you start to experience scale. I know we don't,
we're not like meta scale, but we started to experience the scale of the company with
these apps. And we actually ran out of, ran out of the ability to expand memory on our
virtual machine. We had half a gig of memory on a virtual machine and things were just
getting catastrophically ending because there were things were super popular. And so we
were like, okay, we're at RStudio Connect. We've hit a growing problem. We've proved
out what's our next step. We were really lucky because RStudio, the RStudio Connect team,
the engineering team started to introduce Kubernetes. So Kubernetes, just for everyone
who doesn't know, Kubernetes was a big game changer for us. It basically allows you to
scale your virtual machines. So if you run out of space on one virtual machine, it adds
another one, adds another one. And the other real beautiful thing is that it kind of just
created little houses for people's apps. So you can have an, you know, sometimes we
have an R app, an R Shiny app, and it kind of runs away and it goes from like four gigabytes
to like 50 gigabytes. And you're like, what the heck's going on here? So the beauty of
us going to this sort of platform was that we could put everyone in their own little
house. And we said, okay, everyone, you get a little bit of space. And you know, you would
think that would be restrictive at the time, but what it actually encouraged our engineers
to do is actually start to develop responsibly. It was like, oh, you know, I have a lot of
space here. Why am I running out? And it got them to really think. So anyways, long story
short, that's where we are today. We've been, we put Positive Connect on Kubernetes back in
2021. Exact same thing here today. We've grown from what I, you know, a very small number
of licenses, which we thought was an aggressive proposition. We are up to 900 people. 900
people use our platform every day. We've grown from maybe two to three publishers. We're up to
60 this morning. I just checked. 60 people who have actually published things. So I think, you
know, that has been such an amazing kind of background of my, you know, my career here so far
using Positive Connect to really start to accelerate kind of innovation at the company
at a grassroots level. Amazing. And there are absolutely some things that we can clarify for
folks that I'm seeing in the chat, which is like, one, what is Kubernetes? And Kubernetes,
I think, like John explained, is a tool that's going to automate the management of containerized
applications. And like you said, it's like dynamic memory allocation. So you don't have to go and say,
like, I need this much memory to this thing and this much memory to that thing. As you need it,
it will create it for you. John, am I right? Yeah, yeah. So I think that's one beautiful
thing. Like when you're in RStudio Connect and everyone's on the same machine, you're always
kind of worried that someone's going to cross the fence into someone's side, right? So like when an
engineer was pulling like five years worth of data, that might inflict pain on the person that's,
you know, doing half a year's worth of data. So Kubernetes is this kind of this construct around
Docker images, where you kind of really create these isolated environments and you put guardrails
up. And it does allow for that scaling. And I think that was the big thing for us, because I
didn't have to worry about trying to justify every single approval for more memory, because that's
what IT does. Why do you need more memory? Well, I need more memory because we need it. Well, are
they using responsibly? Yeah, kind of, but sometimes not. So this really helped that conversation out,
because, you know, IT wants us to, you know, me being having an IT background and IT governance
background, I want to be responsible, but I also want to enable people, right? So having, you know,
Kubernetes, one of the beautiful things we talked about, things can scale. It scales up, scales up,
scales up during the day. And then at night, when everyone goes home, you're not stuck with a mega
expensive machine, it all just gets kind of wound it down. And that's kind of a beautiful, elegant
thing. And that's just made invisible by PositConnect. Like it's so seamless. It makes,
frankly, it makes my job easier. Because I don't have to worry about micromanaging and downsizing
every other on the Friday night. Right? Yeah. Which is a relief, I think, to everybody,
including the people who are watching the spending for all of this. Well, I would love to hop into
Slido to have some questions asked live. And the first person I would like to ask is Noor,
because Noor has two questions for you. The first one is a callback to your fun thing.
Noor, would you like to ask live? Yes, sure. Hello. Can people hear me?
Yes. Hi, my name is Noor Sheer. So this is a two part question. I also remember 2008.
So the important actual question that people care about is, what are tips for navigating
a sparse job market, given your experience back in 2008? And the additional question is,
what is dragon, what is dragon boating, my dude? Like, what, what is that? You can't just say
dragon boating and just like stop. Okay, let me answer the let me try to tackle the more difficult
question first about navigating a job market. I will actually just punt this one down. I've been
here for 10 years, and well, 13 years, actually. And the only reason I got this job was really,
I went at the time, they were looking for someone to reinvigorate their program. And it was around
MS Access. And it was this other proprietary tool. And I was known for that. But I think what
happened, at least I was very fortunate, I had a very good not not like a better word of portfolio,
but a reputation. And I think, for me, my personality of being kind of ridiculously
enthusiastic about certain things and selective things helps out when you're when I get a chance
to show up at the table. Because on paper, you know, I think one of the challenging propositions
is posit connect can be substituted for 100 different things. And a lot of that nuance is
lost on a paper. So yeah, I think that's an unsatisfying answer to your question. Because I am
I am human a little bit. Dragon boating, what is dragon boating? It's ridiculously competitive.
It's a historical sport has its roots in China, but really, really has been modernized for
competitive racing. So you kind of get 20 people in a boat, you all sit by side by side, and you're
kind of hip to hip. And you hold a paddle. And you actually hold it kind of top down like this.
And you're actually pulling forward, you're kind of putting your paddle ahead and pulling yourself
forward. And it's a very intense race. They're sprint racing. And it's usually sprint races are
about 500 meters, and they take about two minutes. But it's 20 people all working together. And I
that's why I really liked it here at the companies, because there's no, you know, you could do other
team sports, but they're all have an independent component to it. Dragons, dragon boating is just
one of those things where there is no singular star, everyone has to work together. Lots of
ridiculous videos online. You probably saw the aura dancing thing. That is one of those
aspects of it. But yeah, anyways, that's dragon boating.
Thank you. And that was the burning question that we were all wondering, actually, in the very
beginning, everyone was like dragon boating what I put it put a picture of it in the chat. I think
it's so so so cool. So go Google it if you don't know what it is and watch some videos like getting
pictures on Google Image Search does not do it justice. You've got to go like watch videos and
listen and like, yeah, experience it. Okay, I would love to see other experiences in the chat if people
are willing to share about 2008 2009. I think that that's a great topic. It was something that
like my shaped my husband in my life in a really big way. And I really think that our community
probably has a lot to talk about. So thank you for asking those questions. No, I appreciate it.
Let's hop over to Logan who asked a question in the Slido and I will highlight it. Logan, if you
would like to ask your question live, we will help you unmute and I will go ahead and Rachel just
put your question in the chat too. No, I will do that here. Oh, sorry. I was putting my question.
Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. Hi, John. I'm Logan. I'm at a community college where folks may not want to
always adopt new tools, unfamiliar tools. So I have a question for you. It seems like you've done
some introducing of new tools. When doing that, how do you support all of your users with different
skills and ensure adoption across the board? You know, I think for me, so one of the
successes that when we were bringing on Posit Connect to grow to that scale, one of the things
I think is a relatively large challenge is that people tend to just deploy tools and they just
kind of let it be. And I think that is a recipe for failure because it's never a build it and
they will come situation. So one of the things that we did that I was really happy about was to
create what I call a handbook. I created an internal handbook. And the reason I created an internal
handbook is because every company does things differently. You know, you look at all the great
kickstart examples that, you know, let's say Posit has on how to do something machine learning
related or is Shiny related or API related. You know, there's all these things that you read up
on the internet, but people don't know how things work internally. So every time I got a question,
so this is kind of how I built it up organically. I had this little website. Now it's a portal website,
but I used to have this little Hugo website that I just published. And I would be like, okay, someone
gets me a question. I would go into my handbook and I'd say, oh, okay, this is a question. Let's
document what the, what the inventive way of doing something is. And this handbook has grown from,
you know, it grew from simple things like how do I even get access to Posit Connect,
which I have opinions on, all the way down to how do I, why am I running into this really,
really weird error message? And, you know, adapting these, when you develop a handbook
for your own company, I think people start to go there and trust it. You know, it works for you.
It works as an active person for you to really help drive that sort of engagement because you
start to, you actually are, I think a lot of people here are empathetic to people's problems,
right? And having people find an easy way to solve, to get an answer to a solved problem,
kind of really helps drive that virtuous cycle. Because I'm now getting pull requests
on my handbook from people across the company that I've never even heard of, and they're just
getting on to Posit Connect. So yeah, that was probably the big thing is just for me,
the biggest success has been the handbook. I spend time with people. I love talking to people. I love
seeing people succeed. I've always wanted to be a teacher and I feel like this is just a,
another outlet to kind of live that dream. Awesome. Thank you so much.
Thank you, Logan, for asking that question. I love it so much. And I agree, spending time with
people and prioritizing that is absolutely key. Let's head back over to Slido and let's hop over
to Russ's question. Russ, would you like to ask your question live, Russ Conte? I will highlight
it in Slido for you so you can see it. And then I will also put it here in the chat so everybody
can see it. Okay. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Something worked. You said you worked with fraud
data and I've been involved in lots of stuff like that. What types of fraud were you working with?
I'm aware of lots of different types. I'm curious. What were you doing?
You know, so journal entry testing for fraud detection was really looking for unusual patterns.
I'm so like, it's been a lot of times. My wife will laugh because she's the accountant and every
time I say you debit this or credit that, right, I always get it wrong. But basically you look for
unusual patterns of movement. So, you know, probably the best way to do it is like if you
thought about clustering something, right, and you cluster the way money moves in a company and you
see, you know, there's money going into a subscription account and you are getting cash
in from someone else, right, there's usually generally applied patterns that you would see
flow throughout a company. And it's when people start acting out of the ordinary where those
patterns start to emerge. So, you know, for me, one of the really powerful things is just the
classic, was the classic clustering methods, right? Because you could see the pattern of how
data moved and you got to say, there's a little bit of a group here that just doesn't seem to fit.
And that would kind of involve, you know, that would involve the dive in on stuff, you know,
so that was kind of one aspect. Another aspect of a little bit of fraud detection is that we
were always looking for fraud triangles, like, you know, could someone set up a conflict of
interest? Could someone set up their own company and start paying themselves? You know, so if you
start to, you know, understand the standard way of the way the business works and hopefully
reasonably controlled, those sort of patterns start to come out. So that's how I normally
conquered anti-fraud detection at the time. I wouldn't say it's, there was never a magic button.
I think everyone here knows there's never a magic button to detect fraud,
but it kind of helped you triage and know what to look for.
A fun fact, I also came from fraud, so I've experienced a lot of these things. Also, like,
at a smaller scale and I did lots of triangulation as well. It's probably my first
real data job before I decided to go get a data
degree. It opened my eyes to all of the things that you can do with machine learning. And it
was the very first time I ever experienced a neural network. I was working as a third party
with a neural network that was learning from transactions, right, about what fraud looked like.
And I got to be the person who was checking in with people and saying, hey, was that really fraud?
Or me looking at it and saying, does my human brain think that's fraud? And then letting the
neural network know whether or not it is so it could learn better. I highly recommend looking
into fraud if that is a thing that you feel interested in. Thank you for that amazing
question, Russ. Let's go back over to the Slido. And I know that Mike had a bit of a follow-up
question that I saw. And because I feel like I think I saw him on his phone, I want to give him
a chance to ask it without it being in Slido. Oh, there he is. Rachel typed it for him. Oh,
thank you, Rachel. Okay. So that question for Mike. Mike, are you able to ask that live?
I am because the dog isn't bothering me right now. Yes. So the question, I love the idea of
creating a handbook or collating best practice and advice into one place. My question was,
how do you get people to actually read it? Because I find that if you write the handbook,
then people just know that you're the person to come and ask rather than actually reading it.
I 100% empathize with that. And I think that is the double-edged sword of
having an open door is that people feel like that they should just ask you. And you know what?
There's kind of two things. Number one, yes, inevitably, people are going to come to me,
but because they trust me, I love that as a signal. I love that people are willing to come to
me. But yes, I also have a day job and I also need to get some stuff done. So I find that I've done
two ways that I feel like aren't somewhat, if you do this wrong, it can look a little bit passive
aggressive, i.e. let me Google that for you. That is absolutely not the right way to do it.
I think one thing that I started to do was I answered the question. So I would, I would always
reply to an email or a Teams message. I say, here's, oh yeah, here's the thing. Here's the
answer to the question first. And then I would do two things. Number one, I would just point
them to the handbook, very friendly. Hey, you know, I answered, this question has been answered
here. And then I actually also go back and say, hey, I, you know, A, did you see this? And B,
if you did see it and it didn't seem to answer your question, is there a way I can improve the
documentation? Because people, people love to give feedback, but you also see, you also signal that
you care. So I wrote some documentation the other day on how to onboard to a new tool. And someone
was like, and then they're like, oh, I must've missed that. And I'm like, oh, okay, let's stop.
I probably wrote, miswrote something. Let's try that. So I started to do that. The second thing
that was actually kind of fun early on a days, we, our team here at, you know, our data science team,
one thing that we started to do was we were experimenting with early rag, you know,
retrievable augmented generation on the large language model side. And we actually took our
Quoro handbook, which is written in Markdown, which is perfect for AI. And we put it into
a vectorized search. And we also started to say, Hey, you know what, did you, just so you know,
you let me know how this works out. And we just put it in the query, put in a little screenshot
of the same thing again, not being overly, not being in a passive aggressive way, not to say,
you don't go talk to the bot, never talked to me again, but just to say, Hey, just so you know,
this exists in that it's kind of like when you start to introduce PositConnect or you introduce
any tool, it's a long marathon on culture change. And the culture changes. I want to be transparent
with the knowledge. Here's the knowledge. Here's how you can access it. I don't demand that you
use it, but if you want, don't want to wait for me, cause I don't want to be in a bottleneck.
Come here next time. Maybe you'll get your answer. This is tough. This is like when I was working in
fraud, I had a similar situation where I was like, Oh no, I've become a human encyclopedia.
And it's faster for everybody to call me, pick up the phone and call my extension than to figure
this out on their own. And so I did a ton of reiteration. Like every time someone asked me
a question, I would send them the answer inside of the workbook, the handbook that we had created,
right? Like, here's where you find that next time. I wish I could say that that worked.
I don't think it did. I don't think it did, but we also did classroom training eventually,
where we were like, Oh, this is, there's a need let's set up classroom training. People
can, can go through that over the course of a few days. Okay. Thank you so much, Mike, for your
fantastic follow-up. And I'm going to head over to Slido and ask an anonymous question. Thank you,
anonymous asker. I will put it in the chat right now so that everyone can see it, but it is,
how did you learn R? What Coursera courses could you recommend, or would you simply recommend
reading books by Hadley Wickham? So I'm going to speak because now it's so different about how
to learn. I, let's not, I'm not going to go into that side because that's a very deep, complex
topic on education and enablement. But, you know, I, if I look at my bookshelf over there, I've got
a few, I've got maybe five or six books on, on R. Hadley Wickham was one of them. I, I did a lot of
online. So one thing I am fortunate here, I don't really, to be honest, I think the R stuff was quite
a bit traumatic because it took me a lot of personal pain to go through. This was in the age
before good YouTube tutorials and, and those things. So I read a lot of books and I was, you know,
just kind of grinding through it. I think the only thing that really accelerated my work wasn't going
through the coursework because the coursework is great, but it's also kind of generic.
When I wanted to learn how to use R, there was no resources for it. So I ended up just
applying it directly to my word use case and just seeing how well it stuck and then starting to
write it down. Like, so let's say we talk about R again and I was doing it early in audit days,
I would write a procedure. I would take something that I would learn from Hadley Wickham or
many of the brilliant people out there that I'm trying to learn from and just do simple stuff and
just try to document it. You know, I think you can't, you can read all you want. I kind of take
this like 3D printing. You can read up all you want about 3D printing, but until you see the
magic of something coming out and completely collapsing because you set up something wrong
on the printer, you won't ever really learn how to use a language. So I'd say that because R was
a challenge for me to learn, especially back in the day, Python was a little bit easier,
but still a little bit hard. I think my only real thing is at some point after you read all these
great things, you have to start applying because you could stay in learning mode forever, but I
don't think it's going to stick. How absolutely timely. I just got myself a 3D printer. It's
still in the box. I've never used it before. And I am so excited to make terrible things for at
least a week that don't work and learn a bunch. But you're right, watching a diagnosis, no
substitute. Okay. Thank you, anonymous asker, for that fantastic question. And I have to shout out
Hadley. If you enjoy learning from Hadley, you will want to come to the data science lab on
February 17th because Hadley is going to be joining us. He's going to be live coding a
Tidy Tuesday analysis, like without ever seeing the data before, whatever data is that Tuesday,
he's going to be doing it. If you would like to register for that and you are not already,
you can go to pos.it slash DS lab. I'll put that in the chat. Jared says, which printer did I get?
I got a Bamboo A1. Not the mini, the regular size. Okay. If you have 3D printing tips for me,
specifically about just like basic PLA, send them my way. Okay. And that said, also next week at the
data science lab, you have Isabella and I. We will be sharing with you. We're going to be
collaborating in GitHub with Corto. So come hang out with us. Okay. Let's head back over to Slido.
Sorry for that slight detour. I just had to shout that out because it was so, so timely. We have a
question from Arsenis. Arsenis, would you like to ask that live? And I will also stick that in the
chat for everybody to see. Sure. Thanks, Libby. And hello, Jonathan. Been a while. How are you?
Good, man. Good to see you here. Good to see you. Small world. Yeah. So I used to work at
Aventive with the field development folks that built shiny apps for Aventive. So my question
was kind of asked already. So I'm going to change it around a little bit. Logan asked the question
that was, well, I asked a question that was similar to Logan's and so I'm going to change it.
It has to do with your approach and techniques that you use to getting people not only to use,
especially with like oil and gas engineers who might earlier on have been more reluctant to use
things like R and Shiny. What are some of the techniques that you use to maybe get them to trust
the tech and some of these technologies that help them do things a lot faster?
For. For me, so if I reflect on trying to get people on, I think you the biggest thing was
empathizing with the pain. You know, there's a lot we're all trying to solve our own problems
in our own way. We're very we're in the weeds on our own stuff. And sometimes to look at what
an engineer is doing and you're you know, you're seeing they're making great stuff.
I want them to focus on that. So for me, I think it's a little bit more of a service,
right? Like when I say service, I mean, I'm in service of the person. I love just to sit down
with people, say what they're working on, see what problems are running into, because it's never for
me, you know, it's never the answer isn't always like, oh, positive connect, just throw it there.
You're done. Like it's it's not that because you it feels kind of biased, but sitting with someone
and understanding their pain for me has been the biggest part because they're so into the
weeds of solving a problem. Like, here's a great example, you deploy something on Streamlet,
everyone, a lot of people love doing Streamlet here. And they eventually, you know, you scale
up and then you run into some issues of Streamlet because you're trying to do stuff and you're
sitting with the problem and empathizing with people, for me has been probably the biggest
changer. And then on top of that, because, you know, you've done the right thing. But what is
the right thing, in my opinion, it's making sure that you're deploying on a platform that is
scalable, that you don't have to worry. You know, there's there's a lot of things that if you take
the worry out of people, then people feel like, oh, you know what, talking to you has given a
great sense of freedom. Here's a good example. Early on, when we deployed Posit Connect,
there was, I appreciate everyone's response, everyone's desire to maintain cost control,
but it kind of gets a little bit too much. So people are like, oh, I don't want to deploy onto
this platform, because it's going to take a license and that's going to cost money. So they
see the dollar and they just kind of take it like personally, like, oh, that's going to come out of
my paycheck. And I think people, when you take away that pain, so aren't my decision, I made an
executive decision at the time, Posit Connect, the moment you come in, you get a license,
don't ask me. And that's removed the friction for not, not the user who's coming in, because they
don't ever really care. Oh, if I access this, but it's the publisher, the publisher is like,
who am I going to get this out to? Well, if I have to get this out to people, then I have to
care about the licenses and I have to care about the security. No, you put it on our platform.
You don't worry about licenses. You don't worry about security. I've made the decision
to onboard people for quote, unquote, you know, frictionless, you know, and we already have
security figured out. So if you kind of show that you get to focus on the fun things and you deal
with quote, unquote, boring stuff, people gravitate and people really come to you as
kind of an enabler of things versus being kind of a restrictor of, of tools.
I really like that being an enabler, not a restrictor. That's something that, um,
John, when I first met you, that you said was like, make the right thing to do the easy thing
to do. It's also something that Elliot Murphy said, who's a VP of engineering here at Posit
that like, if you want people to not be constantly like circumnavigating the barriers that you've set
up to protect them and protect the company, then make the easy thing to do the right thing to do.
And then people won't have to create shadow it or, or get around your things in creative ways
because they will be able to do their job without having their hands tied.
So I really, really love that. Thank you very much for asking your question.
And we had an anonymous one that I think we can ask pretty quickly. It was,
do you block time each week for documentation? Do you set aside time for that?
I believe it or not. I don't. I don't either. Does anybody tell me in the chat?
You know, so I, so there are times where I think, you know, it's good to have strategic thinking,
like getting things done methodology. I think it's wonderful. And one of the things in getting
things done where, you know, it's a really kind of a framework for like freeing up your brain,
cause you got a lot of stuff stacked in there. One of the things that getting things done says
is like put time away to plan out your week. And I love that. I think documentation's a little bit
different. I think I build it into the process where someone asks me, I look in the handbook,
is the handbook answer it? No. Okay. I will answer it and I will update the handbook.
I accept it as part of my debt cycle. I don't want to treat it as a separate thing because
it kind of comes like technical debt. I'm going to push out this change and I know that's not
very good. So I'm just going to put myself a ticket to do it next week. And you know, next week,
there's something more important, a bigger fire. So that gets pumped. So for me,
making your doc, making the documentation easy to write, put it in, doesn't have to be perfect,
right? Just put something in there. And if someone comes in and says, okay, this, John,
can you explain this a little bit? I'm like, oh, you know what? Someone's reading that. Let me
expand it a little bit more and make it a little bit more human. And I'm like, okay, I'm going to
let me expand it a little bit more and make it a little bit more human, right? Like don't worry
about, for me, I don't put time away. I just put it in. If it's rough, that's fine. It's not writing
a novel. I'm not writing something that's getting published on the great internet. It's just for
internal use. And if it's kind of rough, it's okay. And I can refine it later, but at least
someone has something to jump off of. So I think that's a long way of saying, for me, I don't,
because I just, I made it a habit just to write and do it right away.
Do it right away. It's kind of like the mantra, don't put it down, put it away. If you are ADHD,
you will know that that mantra can be very helpful. Don't put it down, put it away. So don't,
don't pass it off. Do the documentation right now.
It's like, I'll jump on that same analogy. You're not done cooking until the kitchen is clean.
Oh man. Well, when I'm done cooking, the kitchen's a disaster. And my husband is the one going like
behind me, putting everything away. Oh goodness gracious. God bless my husband. Okay. Let's head
back over to Slido where we have a couple more questions. And we have about 18 minutes left.
So if you have more questions, hop into the Slido and ask them. I'm going to put the link to the
Slido one more time in the chat. Rachel says, I like using every possible pot, pan, or dish.
Same. Every single one is going to be dirty. Okay. Don't forget. This is my reminder to everybody
at the like, Hey, we have 15 minutes left, Mark, that if you have questions about submitting a
conf talk for positive conf 2026, stick around after the call. I will say, John, if you have
somewhere to go, you can obviously bye-bye and say goodbye, but stick around so that Rachel and I
can help you with those answers. Okay. Next question we have here. And it is about getting
leadership buy-in. It's an anonymous question. It says, how would you recommend getting a company
to buy in or get started with not just, you can download it to your computer setup,
even if you only have a few users? And this comment says,
n equals one or two, especially if they're very stringent with security. This is so relatable to
me. Thank you, Rachel, for putting that question in the chat. I feel like I have been in this
situation. Do you have any advice, John, for that initial, like, how do I get leadership,
people with the purse strings, right, to say yes to this?
You know, I think there's kind of two angles. Number one, for me, knowing how to answer IT
questions and being, even nowadays, I'm becoming more disinformant. So, getting some, like, say,
if you're in a high security situation, always just talking to, like, I think large language
models are, like, the big deal right now, right? Like, I'm sending my data out to a large language
model. How do you, you know, what are the security risks? Are people going to train on my data? I
think engaging the right stakeholders on the IT security side has got to be a big part of it.
On the IT security side has gotten me a lot of wins and buy-ins, because it feels like
I'm being transparent, you know. Let's say we talk about Claude Cole and code,
and there was this whole thing about, like, you know, Molespot or whatever it's called now.
You know, for those, you know, that's a cultural thing. That's wonderful reading in itself. But,
like, being kind of an advisor to that has gotten me a lot of wins on the security side.
Now, the business side has always been, I empathize with you guys, with whoever asked
that question, because it's always been a challenge. And I think for me, I don't know
if my strategy is considered kosher, but I show and I don't tell. Because I think a lot of people,
when people, it's hard to imagine what a better case would be like. You know, you could say I'm
going to develop an app, and it's going to optimize workflows, and it's going to make
decision-making faster. You know, those are all kind of great business-like things, but they don't
really show any emotion, right? So, it's hard to compel to the person above you in the tree to do
it. So, I've always loved the show-don't-tell mentality. You know, work within the confines
you have. Like the Shiny app that we talked about years ago that was on a network drive.
We said, you know what, it's making changes. It's making people's lives better. But there's
a lot of stuff I know I'm missing, and I don't want to do it wrong. I don't want to be Shadow
IT. I don't want to circumvent installation policies and do stuff like that. So, for me,
I like to show and I don't tell to get kind of that imagination going. And then also express
an interest to be better, because I think it shows a little bit of professional responsibility that
you aren't going to cowboy things at all cost. You're willing to go at a reasonable pace,
but you still need to have something to show. And I think that's been my biggest success.
It's been for a lot of my projects, I'll be honest. It is a grind. It can be a grind. You know,
you think you're doing the right thing. You know, we had, you know, Positive Connect was one of them.
Doing the handbook was one of them. I wouldn't get buy-in to do that if I just said, I'm going to
make a company repository. That sounds great in theory, but people don't see it until they
actually start to feel the pain that you're solving. So, that's my advice. I love to show
and not tell, but don't show something that's perfect, but just show enough that it gets people
excited. Yeah. And also, it wasn't zero to one completely for you, because you started with
like connect on a virtual machine first, right? Like there was this in-between stage where you
were maybe showing value before that bigger investment maybe in like more seats and Kubernetes
happened. A hundred percent, right? Like you don't want to over-optimize, right? Like I think when
you train a model and you think about all the features you can put in, you know, there's so
many things you could do. And what if I add this data set? And what if I add that? It is a,
you have a career, you know, and take advantage that you have time to get to where you want to
go. And there will be bumps along the way. There have been absolutely bumps along the way,
but if you do the right thing for me, eventually it will come.
Thank you so much. Thank you, question asker, anonymous question asker. I hope that that
helped you along in your journey. There was an anonymous question that I saw that is not for
John, but I still want to answer it. It said, is there a list of recent job posts via this
forum? Because I'd like to post a new requirement that's about to open up at my company. And the
best place to do that is absolutely the discord server. So go join the discord server. And there
is a channel called job board and looking, I think that is the best place to share that and
socialize it. All right. Let's head back over to Slido. And I'd love if Alex could ask their
question live. Let me highlight it. It was moving around in Slido. People were upvoting it. Alex,
are you available to ask that live? It's Alex Andrus. There he is. Hey.
Hi. Thanks very much. Oh, I just got to find it. Oh, there we go. Sorry. It jumped around on me.
So how do you pick the topics to learn more about? LLMs have displaced ML as the hot topic,
but there are still many advancements in traditional ML to keep up to speed on.
In a related note, how do you pick how far to go down the rabbit hole with new topics
that you're trying to stay up to speed with? So the question was, I think the way I interpret this,
Alex, is how do you know what to prove? So I've been honestly very privileged. I've been lucky to
be able to follow a lot of the interests that I have. R was one of those interests. I always like
to say, I personally don't overthink about what is best for my career. I kind of think about what
interests me. So let's talk about dragon boating, for example, in this data. And let's talk about
how it works at Waze back. I always wanted to do an iOS app. That was something I've wanted to do
for the last three years. So I started to pluck away at it. And then dragon boating came along.
It's like, oh, what could I do? So I'm like, well, I'm interested in dragon boating. I love
coaching dragon boating. I love the mechanics of it. But how could I apply a new technology,
a new way of thinking to it? So one of the things I smashed together was, well,
could I use a vision model, i.e. taking stuff from my data science background,
just taking my interest in dragon boating and this new thing, and try to combine it all together.
And for me, it's been, I think for me, being interested in pursuing something that I cared
about has been much more fulfilling. Because then what happens is that you talk about this stuff,
right? You talk about, oh, you know, I tried this iOS app thing. You know, I can see the limits of
it, but vision-wise, it's good. And then someone's like, oh, at work, hey, we want to deploy,
we want to start deploying data to iOS. Oh, we want to start doing vision stuff here at
the company. And you're like, oh, you know what? The interest I've had can kind of propel me into
the next problem that the company has. So I think I've been privileged, I'll be honest.
Being able to follow what interests me has been very fortunate in setting up the next steps of my
career. So that kind of answers that first part. How deep you want to go, I think I'm going to
sound like an economist, but it's really about that marginal benefit. How much pain does it take
to get to that next level? And is it worth it? You know, for me, you know, I could talk about
my Georgia Tech master's attempt. You know, that is kind of that same thing. You do some learning,
are you going to get more benefit? If you do see it, keep going, but you'll know when to pivot.
And that's okay to break earlier than the goal, because eventually you'll find your way through.
That's kind of my way of saying just follow what interests you, because this is your life.
This is your life. You only get one.
Always good advice. Thank you.
Absolutely. And on that note, there was a question that feels very much like a career
advice question. And we always try to get at least one career advice question in.
And it's from an anonymous asker. It says, do you have any advice on how to overcome fear and feel
confident enough to ask questions or voice opinions among coworkers who come across as
confident and have a lot of opinions in the daily standup meetings? This is a very specific question.
But I think that so many people can relate to it.
I think there, well, this is a tough one. A standup meeting where someone has strong opinions.
I think the best way I think I would, I was going to say, I'm not usually the best person because
I'm usually the most outspoken guy. So I feel like I'm kind of on the other side of the fence.
I've been both, honestly.
I think, honestly, there's a lot of people. I also always have to remember, there's always a
lot of smart people. And every time I kind of get in this mode, like I kind of feel it now in my
back, right? There's someone really smart and they're saying something and it could go both ways.
I have found, and I've gotten feedback on this, that, John, you need to be more brave and just
talking, just picking up the phone and calling. We can be really, we can protect ourselves and
our opinions behind the screen, behind the office, even being remote to a certain degree.
And I don't think all of that is bad. I think we're personally, I love working remote and I
think it's great, but you have to know when you have to break down the wall to make it human
again. And if it's just this kind of one-way communication and it's not a two-way kind of
collaboration, I think you can feel like that. So for me, the thing I'm always working on
is just picking up the phone and calling or FaceTime or something like that. That to me
has been, it's the hard thing to do. But I find that most of the time, the person on the other
side, like I'm getting a lot of wonderful questions now about, well, is Posit Connect
ready to do things in production? It has the stereotype of being this. I'm like, actually,
no, it's not. And let's talk through it, right? And I think that helps, but you only, you can't
get that just by spamming and pushing it out. That works to a certain degree, but you,
you got to call, you got to call. And I say that to myself every day, I have to call.
Yeah. The answer to everything at the Hangout is talk to people. And it's funny how that over and
over again, that's the answer to just every single question is talk to somebody. And I think that
it's easier to be brave when you know that the context of the tone of your voice and the tone
of somebody else's voice is like added to the conversation. Because often if it's only ever
via text, the danger of being misread or misreading somebody else and feeling worse than you really
need to feel is a little bit greater. So I really, really love that answer. And I will say as well,
just as a personal, putting my two cents in there, that not all of this is on you as an individual
to just be more brave. It's on your team and your organization from a cultural level
to create the psychological safety to ask questions or to give your input. And it's okay
to expect that and to also help cultivate it. And if it gives you any help at all, if you can think
about anybody else in the room who might also be nervous, if you step up and ask your question and
you're brave, you are lending your braveness to everybody else as well. That always helps me.
Okay. Let's finish up with a question from Natasha and it has an asterisk. So that means that I'm
going to ask it. And it says, do you program much in your current position or does your work
consist more of consulting? And this is a really interesting question for an advisor of data
science and AI. How do you feel about where you are in your career and what you get to do?
I love the question because I think there's always this intersection where I think as people
grow up, you have to choose. And for me, I think I've been kind of straddling that. I would say
I spend about half my time communicating, advocating, evangelizing, helping people.
And I spend the other time doing stuff because I think for me, my personal value is that if I'm
going to talk about something, I need to at least have some level of exposure to it. Large language
models, AI, what can it do? Is it going to take over your job? Well, actually, no, because it's
going to run into the jagged edge. I'm stealing that from someone, Ethan Mollick, I believe.
The jagged edge. But you as an advisor don't get to speak from any place of well-groundedness
unless you know what it's like to be in the trenches. A machine learning model is not going to
do it. But why isn't it going to do it? Well, let's look at the data. So I actually am in this
really weird spot where I do half-half. And it's a challenge because there are days I want to be
more technical. And then some days I see that my marketing side or my evangelizing and communication
side has been struggling. We have an R user group. We've had it for six years, but it hasn't
been six years at 12 one month, one session per month. It's been like out of haphazard. And so,
you know, I tend to try to do both. And it might work to my detriment. It might not. I'm not quite
sure yet. But I love kind of, I have to, for me, if I'm going to say something, I have to be sure
of it. And the only way I'm going to be sure of it is just by kind of doing both at the same time.
Fantastic advice. I hope that if I ever move into a leadership role that I will get to do both,
because I think I would miss not being hands-on. Okay. As we finish here in the last just couple
of minutes, there was a question that I will paraphrase so we can ask it a little bit
more quickly. And it was, is it truly necessary to have deployment experience when you are
looking for a job? Or if you're looking for a job in AI, is it truly necessity to have like
deep AI and LLM experience? Or is it still possible to learn on the job?
I think that's a tough question because I think there's a lot of gatekeeping right now on some
jobs that are quote unquote AI related. You know, and I'm going to take a step back. I actually
don't know if it's the tool that is going to get you hired. It's how you communicate
the business problem. You know, we all know how the intricacies of a gear on how a model works
or how a large language model thing works. We kind of know the gears about it, but it's never
about that. It's about solving a business problem. So for me, like I was just speaking to an HR
advisor and we got excited and we didn't get excited about the AI thing we're going to use
and how to do it. But it's really about what are we actually going to solve to make people's lives
better? Everything else that you do supports that mission. And if you put for me, if you put the
mission on the tool, the ML, the model, the technology of choice of the moment, I think
it's going to put you on this treadmill where it's really difficult to keep up. But if you
are solving the problem, you have suddenly many, many ways of exploring that. So for me,
that's been how I approach it. Not so much about the tool, not about the gatekeeping. I always come
in with saying, how can I solve your problem? Not your problem with this. With this exact tool. I
like that. So maybe the advice could be if you have a portfolio or a resume highlighting the
ways in which you solved problems and what the business problem was and what your solution was
with the tool as an incidental like this was just the tool that I used to do it.
Okay, fantastic. Well, it's the top of the hour. So I will say thank you so much, John, for joining
us. I hope that you had a good time. It was a wonderful session. I love the questions here.
I love that I couldn't keep up with the chat. There's so much. It's so infectious. I love it.
This is why I'm grateful for everyone to asking such thoughtful questions and seeing everyone's
face. It gives me the energy to go back and be a little bit more productive. I'll try. It's been
a high right now. So thank you.